# First time we see render
Happens when we use `createRoot`, usually in a file called `main.jsx` with the target DOM node and then calling its `render` method specificially to rnder our `App` on this node.


```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App';

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<App />);
```

This is telling the DOM that `App` is going to be our main entry point to our `React` environment, and from this file we can keep rendering stuff further on.

This is only the first render and where REact takes over the DOM.

# When is rendering called again?
There are 3 phases;
1. `mounting` - A component is created and added to the DOM either from a functional component structure or a class component structure.
2. `updating` - A component is re-rendered due to changes either from a prop being modified or from a `useState` or `setState`
3. `unmounting` - A component is removed from the DOM.

Render can be called during `mounting`, `updating` which is what we call for `"Render Phase"` while `unmounting` falls under the `"Commit Phase"` which is when React commits changes to the DOM.

## Mounting
Usually happens when we declare a functional react component and use it, render will be called automatically, on Class components we specifically have to call the `render()` method.

Render is called automatically on functional components
```jsx
function Greet() {
  return (
    <h1>Hello</h1>
  )
}
```

Since this is a class compoment we specifically have to call the `render()` method
```jsx
import react from 'react'

class Greet extends react.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <h1>Hello mom</h1>
    )
  }
}
```

## Updating
Happens with the use of `props` (either new value or modifications), `useState`, `setSTate` etc.
Whenever any of the Hooks above are used, `rennder()` will be called comparing the new output with the provious one (via the Virtual DOM) and update the real DOM if needed.

## When is rendering not being called at all?
When we use local JavaScript code such as variables with let, const etc.

# React Lifecycle Diagrams
[wojtekmaj](https://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/)
